[Docs] Color - Rearranging and updating content between foundations/color.mdx and design-tokens/color-usage.mdx (#5551)
grommet/hpe-design-system: aries-site/src/pages/foundation/color.mdx

import { 
  Notification, 
} from 'grommet';

import { 
  BackgroundSwatch,
  BorderSwatch,
  DataVisSwatch,
  DecorativeSwatch,
  ForegroundSwatch,
  IconSwatch,
  StatusSwatch,
  TextSwatch,
} from '../../examples';

<Notification
  status="info"
  message="For a list of all colors, please visit"
  actions={[
    { label: 'view all color tokens and values', href: '/design-tokens/all-design-tokens' },
  ]}
  width={{ max: 'xlarge' }}
/>

## Applying color

HPE colors are stored in the form of design tokens. Rather than applying RGB or hex values, use semantic colors (otherwise called [semantic tokens](/design-tokens/overview#semantic-tokens)). Semantic color names describe when and where to apply them.

Applying semantic colors as intended ensures your design:

- Is aligned with the current theme and visual direction.
- Is accessible.

> - Enables theme mode switching (light and dark).

Author: I don't see any pages in foundations or design tokens called theming.

For more direction on how to use background colors, see [background colors guidance](/foundation/background-colors-guidance).

<BackgroundSwatch />

#### Overlay

The overlay color dims inactive content to direct attention to an active layer. Apply it behind center layer, side drawer layer, or dialog surfaces to reduce cognitive load using `color.background.screenOverlay`.

### Borders
Border colors delineate areas only when spacing or background contrast are insufficient. Use `color.border.default` for neutral boundaries and dividers, and omit borders where existing spacing or contrast already provides clear separation.

<BorderSwatch />

### Text
Text colors help create hierarchy and ensure readability. Use `color.text.default` for body copy and `color.text.heading` for headings. `color.text.strong` can be used to emphasize key figures or other important text. To de-emphasize content and create a clear visual hierarchy, apply `color.text.weak` to secondary information.

<TextSwatch />

### Icon
Icon colors follow text hierarchy and must remain legible at small sizes. Match an icon's color emphasis with its accompanying text.

<IconSwatch />

### Decorative

> Decorative colors provide brand and accent without conveying status or interaction. Limit secondary decorative hues to illustration and non‑interactive ornamentation. Avoid substituting decorative colors for status; use semantic text or foreground status design tokens instead.

Reviewer: Here we say that the decorative colors don't convey interaction yet we have `decorative.neutral.hover` in this section which I assume is used to convey a hover interaction

Author: I will delete this phrase for now, but we should talk about the purpose of that hover token.

<DecorativeSwatch />

### Data visualization
Data visualization colors differentiate categories without overwhelming perception. This palette has been crafted to ensure each series is visually distinct and color blind friendly. Apply data visualization colors according to the following guidelines:

- Begin categorical series with the first design token and proceed sequentially.
- Consider consolidating series with limited data into an "other" category represented by a single data visualization color; provide the ability to drill-down to view detail.
- When using HPE Design System DataChart, series colors are applied automatically in sequence to support consistent interpretation.

<DataVisSwatch />

### Foreground
Foreground colors fill graphic and quantitative regions (meters, progress, indicators) with semantic meaning.

<ForegroundSwatch />

### Status colors
Status colors reinforce state and feedback (critical, warning, ok, informational, unknown) across surfaces, text and icons.

- Use status color only when conveying semantic meaning; avoid decorative substitution.

> - Pair status color with an icon or concise label for rapid scanning.

Reviewer: Wondering if we mention that it should be paired with an icon/label to meet accessibility?

<StatusSwatch />

> ### Focus

Reviewer: Should this section include color swatches that we use for the focus indicator?

### Backgrounds
Background colors establish depth, hierarchy, and cognitive grouping. Products typically begin with `color.background.back` as the base, then layer surfaces using `color.background.front` and `color.background.floating` to convey elevation. Use contrast background tokens to separate dense regions, preferring contrast backgrounds over borders in tight layouts to reduce visual noise.

For more direction on how to use background colors, see [background colors guidance](/foundation/background-colors-guidance).

#### Overlay

Overlay color dims inactive content to direct attention to an active layer; apply it behind modal, drawer, or dialog surfaces to reduce cognitive load using `color.background.overlay`.

### Borders
Border colors delineate areas only when spacing or background contrast are insufficient. Use `color.border.default` for neutral boundaries and dividers, and omit borders where existing spacing or contrast already provides clear separation.

### Text

> Text colors convey prominence and readability. Use `color.text.default` for body copy, reserve strong for headings and key figures, and apply weak only to secondary metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Text colors help create hierarchy and ensure readability. Use `color.text.default `for body copy and `color.text.heading` for headings. `color.text.strong` can be used to emphasize key figures or other important text. To de-emphasize content and create a clear visual hierarchy, apply `color.text.weak` to secondary information.
```

### Icon

> Icon colors follow text hierarchy and must remain legible at small sizes. Prefer the same color emphasis between icon and text.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Icon colors follow text hierarchy and must remain legible at small sizes. Match an icon's color emphasis with its accompanying text.
```

  BorderSwatch,
  DecorativeSwatch,
  DataVisSwatch,
  ForegroundSwatch,
} from '../../examples';

{/* TODO replace with DS icon package when available */}
import { Figma } from 'grommet-icons';

<Notification
  status="info"
  message="For a list of all colors, please visit"
  actions={[
    { label: 'All design tokens', href: '/design-tokens/all-design-tokens' },
  ]}
  width={{ max: 'xlarge' }}
/>

## Applying color

HPE colors are stored in the form of design tokens. Rather than applying RGB or hex values, use semantic colors (otherwise called [semantic tokens](/design-tokens/overview#semantic-tokens)). Semantic color names describe when and where to apply them.

Applying semantic colors as intended ensures your design:

- Is aligned with the current theme and visual direction.
- Is accessible.
- Enables theme mode switching (light and dark).
- Improves maintenance (when themes are updated, designs are synchronised with token updates. See [design tokens overview](/design-tokens/overview).)

The HPE Design System color palette and guidance differ from Brand Central. Prioritize the HPE Design System palette when selecting colors for app or web experiences.

## Color palettes

> Color expresses brand, guides interaction, and supports accessibility. It shapes interface elements, typographic emphasis, data visualization clarity, and adaptation between light and dark modes. Applied intentionally, it reinforces inclusive design across HPE applications and web experiences.

Reviewer 3: Nice!

### Backgrounds
Background colors establish depth, hierarchy, and cognitive grouping. Products typically begin with `color.background.back` as the base, then layer surfaces using `color.background.front` and `color.background.floating` to convey elevation. Use contrast background tokens to separate dense regions, preferring contrast backgrounds over borders in tight layouts to reduce visual noise.

For more direction on how to use background colors, see [background colors guidance](/foundation/background-colors-guidance).

<BackgroundSwatch />

#### Overlay

> Overlay color dims inactive content to direct attention to an active layer; apply it behind modal, drawer, or dialog surfaces to reduce cognitive load using `color.background.overlay`.

Reviewer 3: Soft opinion on the `.` vs. `;` here.

```suggestion
The overlay color dims inactive content to direct attention to an active layer. Apply it behind modal, drawer, or dialog surfaces to reduce cognitive load using `color.background.overlay`.
```

### Borders
Border colors delineate areas only when spacing or background contrast are insufficient. Use `color.border.default` for neutral boundaries and dividers, and omit borders where existing spacing or contrast already provides clear separation.

<BorderSwatch />

### Text
Text colors help create hierarchy and ensure readability. Use `color.text.default` for body copy and `color.text.heading` for headings. `color.text.strong` can be used to emphasize key figures or other important text. To de-emphasize content and create a clear visual hierarchy, apply `color.text.weak` to secondary information.

### Icon
Icon colors follow text hierarchy and must remain legible at small sizes. Match an icon's color emphasis with its accompanying text.

### Decorative
Decorative colors provide brand and accent without conveying status or interaction. Limit secondary decorative hues to illustration and non‑interactive ornamentation, and avoid substituting decorative colors for status; use semantic text or foreground status tokens instead.

<DecorativeSwatch />

### Data visualization

> Dataviz colors differentiate categories without overwhelming perception.

Reviewer 3: Should we communicate a bit more about how dataviz colors are designed to  ensure categorical data series are visually distinct and recognizable from one another?

```suggestion
Dataviz colors differentiate categories without overwhelming perception. 

This palette has been crafted to ensure each series is visually distinct and color blind friendly. Apply dataviz colors according to the following guidelines:
```

- Begin categorical series with the first token and proceed sequentially.

> - Use series colors in a consistent left‑to‑right order for comparability across views.

Reviewer 3: "left-to-right order" is a bit unclear. I'm not sure I follow the instruction. Can you provide an example?

Author: deleted

> - Consider consolidating very low-variance series into a single aggregate color; instead, use drill-down for detail.

Reviewer 3: I'm unclear as to what this is saying.

Author: This is saying to consolidate values that are low in one chart color, instead of trying to add new colors for every single data point.

<img width="971" height="755" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0d52b649-ca61-432e-9b5a-b5a0fbbcfd21" />

> - When using Grommet DataChart, series colors are applied automatically in sequence to support consistent interpretation.

Author: updated

<DataVisSwatch />

### Foreground
Foreground colors fill graphic and quantitative regions (meters, progress, indicators) with semantic meaning.

<ForegroundSwatch />

### Status colors
Status colors reinforce state and feedback (critical, warning, ok, informational, unknown) across surfaces, text and icons.

- Use status color only when conveying semantic meaning; avoid decorative substitution.
- Pair status color with an icon or concise label for rapid scanning.

### Focus
Focus provide clear visual cues for keyboard and assistive technology navigation by highlighting the currently active element, reinforcing accessible interaction.

> ## Color accessibility

Author: good catch! updated

> Color accessibility ensures all users can perceive and understand content regardless of visual ability. HPE Design System prioritizes accessibility compliance through semantic color tokens.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Color accessibility ensures all users can perceive and understand content regardless of visual ability. The HPE Design System prioritizes accessibility compliance through semantic color tokens.
```
